---
title: Mentors and Patrons
date: '2024-03-20'
---

The right mentor can unlock multiple orders of magnitude of potential in a person. If the right mentor puts their entire weight behind you, you can move mountains. 

Let’s call such a mentor a patron. Sam Altman had PG and Elon Musk as patrons. Elon and Steve Jobs had Larry Ellison. One pattern seems to be that these patrons like to mentor those who would do very well without their patronage. But since a lot of titans seem to have mentors (Sam Zemurray being a notable exception), it seems clear that patrons can provide almost unimaginable leverage. As relationships become increasingly important, this tail end outcome will also skyrocket. One thing that’s interesting but I haven’t tested yet, is that you can ask for these. Brian Chesky asked Warren Buffett to mentor him and he said yes. More lowkey titans don’t even know who to mentor, even though they have free time. Since having one brilliant mentor is worth SO much more than having a few good mentors, this should push people to find the best. How? Some thoughts, I’m figuring this Ask the person you respect the most to put you in touch with the person they respect the most. Build real relationships, don’t stick with potential mentors if the vibes aren’t right. Think about non obvious insights in fields that your potential patrons care about. Have good conversations with people to refine these insights into hypotheses that you can test. Test them. Always have a good answer to “what bets are you making right now and why?” Meet people who might be interested in these bets. See how far this can take you. 